a very good relationship that is how
Donald Trump has described his ties to
Benjamin Netanyahu the former president
made the remarks after meeting the
Israeli Prime Minister at his maralago
estate in Florida today Trump has been
trying to mend the relationship with
Netanyahu which we have to say has
soured in recent years he's cast himself
as the strongest Ally that Israel could
have in the White House ahead of the
meeting the former president called for
a quick end to the war in Gaza
DW's correspondent Janelle Duman has
been following developments for us she
joins me now from Washington good to see
you Janelle so tell me what has come out
of this
meeting BR so Netanyahu was at maralago
for a few hours and since then a readout
has been released and in that readout it
says that Netanyahu thanked Trump for
all that he did for Israel during the
Trump Administration including moving
the US Embassy to jerus M including
ending the Iran nuclear deal and as for
Trump's part uh he it said in that
readout that he told Netanyahu that he
stood in solidarity with Israel
following the October 7 attacks and that
when he is back in the white house that
is how the readout was written when not
if when he was back in the white house
then he would do all that he could do to
bring back peace in the Middle East no
word of course on how he's going to do
that now Trump really used this occasion
to set a contrast between himself and
his likely rival camela Harris saying
that camela Harris would be so much
worse for the Middle East he cannot
imagine a Jewish person voting for
camela Harris he also said that the vice
president's remarks delivered after her
own meeting with Benjamin Netanyahu were
disrespectful uh now Harris did deliver
some forceful remarks saying that Israel
had the right to defend itself but it
mattered how Israel did that she also
condemned the devastation
uh raked by the war saying that she
would not look away now uh Trump seized
upon those remarks to say that he hoped
that they would not get in the way of a
ceasefire hostage release deal so really
what he was trying to do here was to
show that the Republican party is the
party that is loyal to Israel and the
Democratic party and camela Harris are
not he wanted to be able to show that he
had a good relationship with Benjamin
Netanyahu even though in months previous
uh he criticized Netanyahu for not
anticipating the October 7 attack and we
know that the relationship was Rocky
even before that he had been angry at
Netanyahu ever since Netanyahu called
Joe Biden to congratulate him for his
2020 win in the presidential election
but all that seems to be in the past now
both men ke to show that they can work
together now meanwhile Pro Palestine
protesters also uh hung around maral
Lago they basically followed Netanyahu
everywhere he went on on this trip
showing just how divisive and uh
complicated this issue is for the US
ahead of the election and Benjamin
Netanyahu he has certainly been making
the rounds the last couple of days in
the United States what did he get out of
his us
trip you know I think it would be fair
to argue that this uh trip was pretty
much a success for Netanyahu he got uh
one last photo opportunity with Joe
Biden in the Oval Office he got separate
meetings with Harris and Trump one of
them is likely to become the next
president he got standing ovations in
Congress and with that he was able to
show audiences at home watching in
Israel that he still has standing in the
US but of course uh he also came to the
US with other demands we heard it in his
speech to Congress he asked uh the US to
FastTrack arms deliveries to Israel
saying uh give me the tools and give us
the tools and finish the job faster now
the White House doesn't look uh inclined
to do that or not yet and in that
respect he's probably going to have to
go home empty-handed uh on that front
however uh in terms of what the White
House wanted the White House wanted uh
some sign that Netanyahu was prepared to
fully back the us back ceasefire hostage
release deal now the White House has
been saying for days that the deal is
closer than ever but all n who would say
during this visit was that uh he was
working on getting the hostages home so
that's not really uh the full throated
expression of support that the US wanted
and in that respect we could say that
Netanyahu probably got more out of this
visit than the Biden Administration did
DW's Janelle Duman with excellent
reporting and Analysis tonight from
Washington Janelle thank you